Run EA container + managed by fleet + standalone + autodiscovery (#2366)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/ingest-management/elastic-agent/configuration/autodiscovery/kubernetes-hints-autodiscover.asciidoc

[[hints-annotations-autodiscovery]]
= Hints annotations based autodiscover

beta[]

NOTE: Make sure you are using {agent} 8.5+.

Standalone {agent} supports autodiscover based on hints from the <<kubernetes-provider,provider>>.
The hints mechanism looks for hints in Kubernetes Pod annotations that have the prefix `co.elastic.hints`.
As soon as the container starts, {agent} checks it for hints and launches the proper configuration
for the container. Hints tell {agent} how to monitor the container by using the proper integration.
This is the full list of supported hints:

[discrete]
== Required hints:

[float]
=== `co.elastic.hints/package`

The package to use for monitoring.

[float]
=== `co.elastic.hints/host`

The host to use for metrics retrieval.

[discrete]
== Optional hints available:

[float]
=== `co.elastic.hints/data_stream`

The list of data streams to enable. If not specified, the integration's default data streams are used.
To find the defaults, refer to the {integrations-docs}[Elastic integrations documentation].

> If data streams are specified, hints can be defined for each one. For example, `co.elastic.hints/key.period: 10m` if the data stream specified is `info` from the {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-redis.html[Redis module]. Otherwise, the data stream will use the top-level hints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If data streams are specified, additional hints can be defined per data stream. 

For example, `co.elastic.hints/info.period: 5m` if the data stream specified is `info` for the {metricbeat-ref}/metricbeat-module-redis.html[Redis module]. 

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: redis
  annotations:
    co.elastic.hints/package: redis
    co.elastic.hints/data_streams: info
    co.elastic.hints/info.period: 5m
----

```
Otherwise, the data stream will use the top-level hints
```

Reviewer: @ChrsMark is info.period not key.period right?

[[hints-annotations-autodiscovery]]
= Hints annotations based autodiscover

beta[]

NOTE: Make sure you are using {agent} 8.5+.

> Standalone {agent} supports autodiscover based on hints from the <<kubernetes-provider,provider>>.

Reviewer 2: Should the fact that it is only supported for standalone be also a NOTE ? @gizas

The password to use for authentication. It is recommended to retrieve this sensitive information from an ENV variable
and avoid placing passwords in plain text.

[float]
=== `co.elastic.hints/stream`

The stream to use for logs collection, for example, stdout/stderr.

If the specified package has no logs support, a generic container's logs input will be used as a fallback.

[discrete]
== Available packages that support hints autodiscovery

The available packages that are supported through hints can be found
https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/tree/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone/templates.d[here].

[discrete]
== Configure hints autodiscovery

To enable hints, you must add `hints.enabled: true` to the provider's configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
providers:
  kubernetes:
    hints.enabled: true
----

Then ensure that the proper volumes and volumeMounts are specified by uncommenting the appropriate sections in the {agent} manifest:

[source,yaml]
----
volumeMounts:
- name: external-inputs
  mountPath: /etc/elastic-agent/inputs.d
...
volumes:
- name: external-inputs
  emptyDir: {}
...
----

An init container is also required to download the hints templates.

> The init container is already defined, so uncomment the respective section:

Author: I am a little hesitant to do this, because if the manifest changes we don't have any guarantees that the line with redis will remain the same and pointing to a different one could be confusing. What do you think?

> The init container is already defined, so uncomment the respective section:

Reviewer 3: I thought about link to the manifest itself - https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone-kubernetes.yaml, not to the specific line(s) of init container - https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/blob/main/deploy/kubernetes/elastic-agent-standalone-kubernetes.yaml#L657-L668
but I think that this manifest was mentioned already in documentation, so it might be indeed redundant. Let's keep it as is
